## Intro
Activities are so poorly documented that it doesn't surprise me there continues to be so much confusion about them. I decided to write a small essay here (!) to help address the problem.
At face value, activities and virtual desktops seem quite similar. If you wanted, you could use activities just like virtual desktops, in other words to organize your desktop so that you don't have all the open applications cluttering a single desktop. In fact, you could remove virtual desktops from your system entirely and use activities instead if you wanted. (You can even replace the virtual desktop pager in the panel with a similar-looking activity pager).
## Details
- But activities have a lot of features that virtual desktops lack. Each activity can have its own custom system settings (wallpaper, theme, power management, shortcuts in the dock or panel, widgets on the desktop, etc.) This allows you to customize an activity to a specific task, so that the task is handled as efficiently as possible. For example, if you're watching a TV series that's saved on your hard drive, you could have an activity that places the Folder View widget on the desktop, and set the widget to show the folder that the media files are saved in, so that you don't have to go looking for them every time you want to watch. 
- If you have to interrupt your viewing of an episode, you could leave it paused in the video player, and it wouldn't get in your way when you switched to another activity (work, for instance!). You could also disable power management in this video-viewing activity so your screen never turns off, and perhaps you could place the Bluetooth widget on the desktop so you have a larger, easier "target" to click on when you need to enable Bluetooth and connect your external speakers/headset.
- I use that just as an example. Once you've got a bunch of activities, you can stop any one of them so it's not using CPU / RAM and will not appear when you cycle through the activities with meta+tab. Then, when you're ready for that activity again, you can just start it up again and it will resume exactly where you left off. Perhaps it's helpful to think of activities as virtual user sessions rather than as enhanced virtual desktops.

## The Downside
- Having trumpeted all the great benefits of activities, let me now tell you why I only put up with them for a month before getting rid of them! They feel clunky! 
- When you create a new activity, you may find it launches with the system default wallpaper from when you installed Plasma (the one you promptly changed after installation). 
- Some GTK applications do not support activities, so you'll see them appear on every activity (and you'll wonder what effect this is having on their data integrity). 
- And whereas switching between virtual desktops is a smooth, fast, seamless process with nice animations, switching between activities can have a jarring effect. Your screen may flash (almost like you're switching to a second monitor) and there is no animation. 
- When cycling through activities, a giant side pane will pop up (no option for the kind of cycle menus available for virtual desktops), but despite the amount of screen space this side pane takes, it does not show you a screenshot of all the windows open inside it (it shows a screenshot of the wallpaper, but not the windows that are open).

## In Sum
I have other complaints too. My bottom line is that activities are a great idea that should have replaced virtual desktops completely (or should in future), but they're just "not ready for prime time". Your experience may differ, and I encourage you to find out for yourself.
